Adult. A large, gray heron with a heavy, daggerlike bill. Adult has a broad black stripe above and behind each eye, a white central crown stripe and white face, black shoulder patches, dark gray upperparts (with lighter gray plumes in breeding season), and a grayish-white neck with black streaks down the middle. The bill is orange in full breeding plumage.

Juvenile. Juvenile is duller overall, with a muted head pattern that lacks the crisp black-and-white stripes of an adult. The neck is the same  light gray as the back and wings. Juvenile lacks plumes and has duller bill and legs than adult.

Adult. A large, long-necked heron found in lakes, ponds, and other wetlands. Adult in breeding plumage has gray upperparts (with lighter gray plumes), a grayish-white neck with black streaks down the front, a white face and crown stripe, a broad black stripe above and behind each eye, and a long black plume extending from the back of the head. 

Adult. Gray Herons fly with the neck tucked in, creating a bulge below the back of the head. In flight, note the two-toned upperwing pattern: black flight feathers and gray inner coverts, with a small white patch at the bend of the wing.

Adult. Underwings appear more uniformly dark gray. During peak breeding season, both the bill and legs can become bright orange-red.

Immature. Immature is duller overall and lacks the crisp white-and-black facial patterning of an adult. This heron eats mostly fish, which it catches by standing motionless—or in this case, walking slowly in shallow water—before quickly striking.  

Adult (Mauritanian). The rare “Mauritanian” Gray Heron is much paler than the common, widespread “Gray” Gray Heron.

Adult (Madagascar). The “Madagascar” Gray Heron is typically larger than “Gray” Gray Heron, with a larger bill and longer legs.

Adult. Performs treetop courtship displays that include elaborate stretches, erected plumes, calls, and bill snaps.

Adult. Forages in a wide variety of shallow wetlands, including lake shores, marshes, ricefields, and fishponds.

Adult. Female builds stick nest from materials delivered by male. Nests are high up in treetops and often reused from year to year. 

