Male. Adult male is mostly black overall, with a black head, neck, breast, back, and tail. The head can look purplish or greenish depending on the light. Gleaming white sides contrast with the otherwise dark plumage. A feather tuft hangs off the back of the head (length varies). The bill is gray with an entirely black tip. Eyes are yellow. 

Female/immature. Female and immature are brown overall, with a darker brown back. The bill is short and broad, and sometimes bordered by a small amount of white at the base. The overall head shape is rounded, but with a steep forehead, flat top, and rounded back. Adult female usually has at least a small tuft. 

Male. Adult male is mostly black overall, with a black head, neck, breast, back, and tail contrasting with white sides. A feather tuft hangs off the back of the head, which can appear purplish or green depending on the lighting. The bill is gray with an entirely black tip. This bird reveals its white wing stripe while preening. 

Male. In flight, note the extensive white wing stripe set off against dark wings and a black back. 

Immature male. Immature male starts to transition from female-like juvenile plumage to adult male plumage during its first winter. Note the short tuft; brownish-black head, back, and tail; and touch of white on the brownish side. 

Female. Female is brown overall, with a darker brown head and back. The overall head shape is rounded, but with a steep forehead, flat top, and rounded back. Individual females are variable when it comes to tuft size, white at the base of the bill, and white under the tail. 

Male. Overall head shape is rounded, but with a steep forehead, flat top, and rounded back. The short bill is mostly gray, with a lighter gray section adjacent to an all-black tip. 

Female/immature. Female and immature have a dark brown head and back, and lighter brown breast and sides. Some (but not all) show white under the tail. The broad gray bill has a light band next to a black tip. Adult female usually has at least a small tuft. 

Female with chick. Breeds in freshwater habitats, including ponds and lakes bordered by marsh. Chicks typically remain with the female for 45–50 days before fledging, but small ducklings can usually survive on their own if necessary. 

Male. Breeds in a variety of freshwater habitats, including ponds and lakes bordered by marsh. 

Female and chick. Chicks remain with female for 45–50 days before fledging. 

Male (with Lesser Scaup). In North America, Tufted Ducks are usually seen in the company of scaup and/or Ring-necked Ducks. Here, an adult male’s black back, bright white sides, and namesake tuft help it stand out in a group of Lesser Scaup. 

(with Common Pochard). A relatively small diving duck, smaller-bodied than Common Pochard (seen here) and Greater Scaup. 

Male. Forms flocks in winter, sometimes numbering in the thousands. 

